# Paradata



I had the most difficulty deciding what to do for this final module. I was not quite sure what to create nor did I really know which direction I wanted to take my topic in. The reason for my indecisions really boil down to two main causes of concern. 

#1 – I was struggling with how to advance my work in a meaningful way. The point of this module was to bring our digital creations into the physical world. Yet, throughout this course and throughout my own journey with my topic, I have become increasingly conscious of the roles we play as historians and of the potential unexpected consequences we face when manipulating things from the past, whether it be a narrative or a physical object. In Module 2, I focused on the multiple narratives that the Brillo boxes convey, and throughout the Brillo box’s many transformations (from consumer item, to fine art, to a digital 3D model) these narratives have shifted or have been lost all together. Questions of ethics arose as I was aware that each transformation utilized a pre-existing work, which was manipulated for the use and intentions of the creator (myself included). Therefore, I was somewhat hesitant to create a physical copy of a digital copy of a physical copy of an already existing object. (Confused? Me too.) I feared that dragging on this process of copying and reproducing would be redundant, unethical, and meaningless. 


#2 – I was also concerned about my practical skills when it came to producing a physical rendering of my object.  I feel as though the modules have been getting harder and harder in this regard, and I can admit that technological troubleshooting is not my forte, with my pre-existing technological skills being limited to Microsoft Office and Adobe applications. Thus far, I have been impressed with what I have been able to accomplish, and the discussions we have been having in class about “productive failures” have really helped affirm my less than perfect work and have encouraged me to experiment and move forward. However, with this module I was very unsure of what I wanted to accomplish.


In addressing my first concern regarding the redundancy of repetition, I decided that it was best to just fully acknowledge my role as a historian, as a digital creator, and as an “artefact appropriator” and purposefully bring my digital work from Module 1 back into physical space in the most literal way possible.  I therefore decided to create a moving hologram of my 3D model of the “Brillo Soap Pad Boxes” from Module 1. While I was still concerned about how I would actually be able to go about doing this (see Process Notes for this journey,) I figured that this option at least allowed me to do some hands on work by creating the actual hologram projector out of plastic. While I am not entirely confident with technology, I am confident in my crafting abilities. Worst case scenario, I would make a hologram out of image rather than a video (thankfully it did not come to this.)

The Brillo boxes have gone through so many changes already, I felt as though making my 3D model into a hologram would intensify the removal of its original context as a consumer product, and its later context as an art piece, making it so steeped with hidden and distorted narratives that its presence as a hologram is a statement itself.  The hologram is completely removed from its original surrounding context of a kitchen or an art gallery, and so its purpose and history is completely lost to a typical viewer who may not be informed on this specific topic. Furthermore, as a 3D model, the Brillo Soap Pad Boxes are removed from their setting in a gallery, and as a hologram, the Brillo Soap Pad Boxes are removed from their interactive digital space and physically brought into the world of the viewer. The viewer is then faced with this tiny, broken looking model right in front of them, and they are forced to try to understand what they are looking at and how it can possibly be important.

This got me thinking about a lecture from a few weeks back in which it was said that producing copies and displacing context has the potential to have social and ethical implications. In my case, the ethical implications are very apparent to me. Most of this issue I have already addressed in Module 2, and so at this point, taking this historical object and displacing it further only adds to the already existing ethical implications, yet the extremity may help a confused viewer acknowledge this reality. This idea of ethical implications in regards to holograms has been rather relevant in popular culture as of recent, as there has been a fad of bringing deceased musicians “back to life” through the use of holograms on stage. Discourse surrounds this issue as some people think it is tasteless and improper to seemingly “revive” a deceased musician who cannot consent to the performance. This was discussed fairly recently when a projection of Prince was used at the latest Super Bowl half time performance because he was presented alongside Justin Timberlake, someone that Prince was known to have dislike. Therefore, certain types of holograms do have the potential to cause harm and cross ethical and societal boundries. 

As with most forms of reproduction, holograms may present some issues to historians in the future. Failure to represent an object in its proper visual form, or in the proper location or context can have detrimental effects. This has been seen with the reproduction of the Triumphal Arch from Palmyra. As Kamash explains in the article ‘Postcard to Palmyra’: bringing the public into debates over post-conflict reconstruction in the Middle East,” the unfaithful reproduction of an ancient landmark that was not displayed in its home country nor with a proper, informative context proved to be emotionally detrimental to the people of the Middle East AND other viewers who realized the problematic reality of the 3D reconstruction. 

Authenticity in historical artefacts are highly valued because they are tied to the historical narratives it represents. Part of Palmyra’s history is that the ruins were destroyed, and some felt as though that reality was taken away by the attempt at a reproduction. A similar comparison can be drawn to the many reproductions of Brillo boxes, however the scope of those who may have been negatively affected is smaller and perhaps even non-existent today as the Brillo boxes remain as an icon of Andy Warhol’s work, and the Brillo Company itself still remains active and successful today. One could even argue that Warhol’s appropriation had a positive impact on Brillo as his work promoted the company and made them visible in the art and culture world. Either way, it is certain that such a simple object has made a large impact in every form that it has taken.
